---
layout: post
title: "AI for Earth Observation"
image: images/EO-blog-one-banner.jpg
description: "AI for Earth Observation Data"
---

Machine learning-based computer vision models have been emerging as the primary tool to analyze and extract essential insights from Earth Observation (EO) imagery data. However, applying such models to EO imagery requires access to large annotated training datasets. Several recent studies have confirmed that existing geo-referenced data sources such as OpenStreetMap (OSM) can effectively be used as a source of ground truth for EO imagery data. Yet, integrating these geo-referenced annotation sources with EO data requires expertise in satellite imagery. On the other hand, building a computer vision model requires relevant machine learning skills, making it difficult for researchers, scientists, and companies to develop or test their use-cases without this blend of skills.

This project aims to address this challenge by automating the process of creating and evaluating deep learning models for EO applications. The project's envisioned goal is to make it easy for companies and businesses without the extensive experience of developing AI models and EO for their specific use-cases. Specifically, the project investigates the possibility of generating an annotated dataset by leveraging satellite imagery and other geo-referenced data such as OSM. It further
describes the process of how to apply deep learning models for object detection on EO imagery through experimentation. 

The project: 

1. Developed a pipeline for creating an AI-ready dataset for EO applications by combining satellite imagery and geo-referenced data sources such as OSM.
2. Developed machine learning pipeline for building machine learning models for EO applications with a focus on object detection.

{% include youtube.html content="https://youtu.be/fpnwYz8zZ9Q" %}
